Video Publish Time: 2024-02-02 00:00:00
 I am here with Apple CEO Tim Cook and this morning he is celebrating the long awaited release of the Apple vision pro and now he's going to tell us all about it and thank you for joining me this morning and I had an opportunity to try to the Apple vision pro was the most amazing thing is so hard to describe to someone who hasn't experienced it yet. It's magic is absolutely magical. But how with it with FaceTime and so forth. Some people will train on it. Surgeons will train on it. It's just the number of use cases is like the computer. It's just enormous because there's over a million apps for it already. It is a computer, but it is lot of artificial intelligence and machine learning built into the product. To get hand gestures, to get room mapping, this stuff requires very deep machine learning. And we couldn't be more proud of it. You know, a company only has a few of these. Most companies have on my face know what I'm doing with my hands well there's many cameras in it and we're always looking at the hands and they don't have to be out here and so it's not uncomfortable you can put them in your lap and you can select your with your eye you select the app that you want to open and with your once you start using it doesn't take long to figure it out. But the big the way your mind works. Yes. You know you don't really have to train to use it. You put it on and you already know how it works. It makes sense. Absolutely makes sense. The big question for a lot of people at home would be the price. It's $3,500. How long before it's more accessible to your average customer? Well it's going to buy it. But, you know, over time, who knows what will happen? But we think we've priced it for the right value today. And there's always, there's going to be some critics who have done it say, does this keep us disconnected? How would you answer that? I would say no, because you don't have to immerse yourself. You can augment your reality. And so you was a key design point for us. We wanted people to be able to see each other's eyes, not get blazed over in a headset. And it really is amazing what you've come up with here. And like I said, I had a chance to experience it. The interaction with technology is unlike anything I've ever experienced. Oh, I totally agree. You know, I think about the first demos is huge. And you just have to keep working at it to miniaturize it and get the technology down pat. And we really feel proud of today and delivering the product. Thousands of people have worked for multiple years to deliver this. Well you can see it when you try to product congratulations to fantastic to be here with you. An excited story everybody here clapping their plan music, the lines outside are crazy.